# AOP概念：Aspect、 Join Point 和Advice等术语理解

- AOP 定义
  - AspectJ: Aspect-oriented programming is a way of modularizing crosscutting concerns much like object-oriented programming is a way of modularizing common concerns.
  - Spring: Aspect-oriented Programming (AOP) complements Object-oriented Programming (OOP) by providing another way of thinking about program structure.The key unit of modularity in OOP is the class, where as in AOP the unit of modularity is the aspect. Aspects enable the modularization of concerns (such as transaction management) that cut across multiple types and objects.

- Aspect 概念
  - AspectJ: aspect are the unit of modularity for crosscutting concerns.They behave somewhat like Java classes, but may also include pointcuts, advice and inter-type declarations.
  - Spring: A modularization of a concern that cuts across multiple classes.
- Join point 概念
  - AspectJ: A join point is a well-defined point in the program flow. A pointcut picks out certain join points and values at those points.
  - Spring: A point during the execution of a program, such as the execution of a method or the handling of an exception. In Spring AOP, a join point always represents a methodexecution.

- Pointcut 概念
  - AspectJ: pointcuts pick out certain join points in the program flow.
  - Spring: A predicate that matches join points.
- Advice 概念
  - AspectJ: So pointcuts pick out join points. But they don't do anything apart frompicking out join points.To actually implement crosscutting behavior, we use advice.Advice brings together a pointcut (to pick out join points) and a body of code (to run ateach of those join points).
  - Spring: Action taken by an aspect at a particular join point. Different types of advice include“around”,"before”and “after”advice. Many AOP frameworks, including Spring,model an advice as an interceptor and maintain a chain of interceptors around the join point.
- Introduction 概念
  - AspectJ: Inter-type declarations in AspectJ are declarations that cut across classesand their hierarchies.They may declare members that cut across multiple classes, or change the inheritance relationship between classes.
  - Spring: Declaring additional methods or fields on behalf of a type. Spring AOP lets you introduce new interfaces (and a corresponding implementation) to any advised object.